#summary Freescale Accelerometer Kit Review for Element14.com

= *WORK IN PROGRESS* =

<wiki:toc max_depth="3" />

= Introduction =

== What is in the box ==
=== LFSTBEB845x - MMA845xQ accerometers ===
  * 700-26678: PWA, [http://www.freescale.com/webapp/sps/site/prod_summary.jsp?code=LFSTBEB845X LFSTBEB845X]
  * 700-76784: PWA, [http://www.freescale.com/webapp/sps/site/prod_summary.jsp?code=MMA8451Q MMA8451Q] DIP (14-bit)
  * 700-76785: PWA, http://www.freescale.com/webapp/sps/site/prod_summary.jsp?code=MMA8452Q MMA8452Q] DIP (12-bit)
  * 700-76786: PWA, [http://www.freescale.com/webapp/sps/site/prod_summary.jsp?code=MMA8453Q MMA8453Q] DIP (10-bit)
  * 920-75531: Technical Information Center Freescale Semiconductor, Inc.
  * 920-75532: Warranty Card, Freescale
  * 920-78478: Quick Start Guide, LFSTBEB845x
  * 951-00409: Sensors Toolbox XTrinsic Card

=== LFSTBUSB - USB Communication ===
  * 700-26091: PWA, [http://www.freescale.com/webapp/sps/site/prod_summary.jsp?code=LFSTBUSB USB Interface Board]
  * 600-76796: Cable, USB Type A Male / Type Mini B Make 3ft
  * 920-75531: Technical Information Center Freescale Semiconductor, Inc.
  * 920-75532: Warranty Card, Freescale
  * 926-76336: Quick Start Guide, LFSTBUSB


= Using the Kit - LFSTBUSB =
== Without Reading the Online Manual ==
=== Connecting to Linux ===
==== Steps ====
  # Connect usb cable between LFSTBUSB and your Linux laptop
  # Switch power on @ LFSTBUSB

==== dmesg ====
{{{
[14273.976025] usb 6-1: new full speed USB device using uhci_hcd and address 4
[14274.165110] ftdi_sio 6-1:1.0: FTDI USB Serial Device converter detected
[14274.165154] usb 6-1: Detected FT232BM
[14274.165156] usb 6-1: Number of endpoints 2
[14274.165158] usb 6-1: Endpoint 1 MaxPacketSize 64
[14274.165160] usb 6-1: Endpoint 2 MaxPacketSize 64
[14274.165162] usb 6-1: Setting MaxPacketSize 64
[14274.167110] usb 6-1: FTDI USB Serial Device converter now attached to ttyUSB0
}}}
= Using the Kit - LFSTBEB845x =
== Without Reading the Online Manual ==
=== Connecting to LFSTBUSB ===
==== Steps ====
  # Make sure that LFSTBUSB is disconnected from laptop
  # Select accelerometer DIP (MMA8451Q,MMA8452Q or MMA8453Q)
  # Insert LFSTBEB845x to LFSTBUSB
  # Insert DIP to LFSTBEB845x
=== Comments ===
You need to be sure that you insert the DIP to LFSTBEB845x in right way. Note that there are ID's for the sockets on the PCB. Make sure that J1 and J2 are going to matching sockets on both PCBs. The DIP has been also shaped in that way that the outer sides will match, one side of the DIP is longer and should be pointing inwards. Another thing to be noted is that LFSTBEB845x has a lot of SMD components on the backside, so that has to be inserted first to the LFSTBUSB other wise you can damage them by accident. When the LFSTBEB845x and LFSTBUSB have been connected together you can connect the DIP more safer.